In this lesson, I'll give you an overview of a test method that I have created as an exercise described
in previous lesson.
And I'm also going to attach the source code of this test class to this lecture.
All right, so here's my new test method that I have added, and I have called this new test method.
Test create user.
When first name is only one character returns 400 status cut.
So it will test the create user method.
When the value of first name is only one character, you should return HTTP status code 400, which
stands for a bad request.
Now first of all, I have moved all duplicate code from my arrange section from each test method up
to a lifecycle method that is annotated with before each annotation.
Here I initialize user details, request model and I set user values.
Now in the orange section of my new test method, I set the value of users first name to one character
only.
And this is going to be an invalid value because in user details request model, this property is configured
to be minimum two characters long.
Let's open user details, request model and let's open this clause.
So here is the first name and it is annotated with size annotation.
And this size annotation is configured that the user's first name value length is minimum two characters.
And because in my test method I set this value to one character only, I expect this validation to trigger
an error message.
All right, so let's go back to our test method.
In the ACT section, I perform a request and in the assert section, I validate that the status code
of response is set to 400 or by the request.
Now let's run this test method and see if it works.
And it passes, which confirms that a response that is good is set to a bad request.
Now, if I provide a valid value for users first name, then I expect this test method to fail.
Because if the value of first name is valid, then validation will be successful and we will get a different
result.
So let's try.
Instead of one character, I will provide a longer name.
Now, if I run this test method again, my test method will fail because the validation of user's first
name is now successful.
Create user method continues to execute and we no longer receive back expected results.
All right, so let's make it work again.
I'll provide a short and invalid name instead of a longer name, and we'll run my test method one more
time to make it pass.
And now my test method passes.
All right, so there are other test methods you can write to properly test this request.
For example, you can write a test method to validate if the minimum and maximum length of users password
is checked, and if the value of users last name, for example, is within the allowed range.
And now that we have written a couple of test methods for our create using method, you should be able
to test other properties of user details on your own.